How to submit a demo (#136)
PennyLaneAI/qml: demos_submission.rst

   :property="og:description": Take a deeper dive into quantum machine learning by exploring cutting-edge algorithms using PennyLane and near-term quantum hardware.
   :property="og:image": https://pennylane.ai/qml/_static/demos_card.png

To submit your own demo you can follow the steps below, beginning with creating
a demo, followed by filling in a demo-submission template and posting it as an

> issue to the `PennyLane QML GitHub repository <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml>`_

Reviewer: Let's create an issue template directly on the github repo, so that we don't have to recreate it here :) This can be done here: https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/issues/templates/edit

We can even have multiple issue templates, and it will look quite nice:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2959003/93729108-39ea1e00-fc02-11ea-84c2-15f42a7b3394.png)

Author: Thanks @josh146. This is a great idea! I've created new issue templates ([this PR](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/pull/138)).

Reviewer: Amazing! Once it's merged, you can have a link here that takes you straight to the issue template to fill in:

https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?assignees=&labels=demo&template=community-demo.md

Create a demo
-------------
Create a demonstration/tutorial that is using PennyLane and upload it to e.g.
GitHub, Bitbucket or GitLab. Preferably, the demo is simply written as a Jupyter
notebook or a Python document (using either Python comments or Restructured Text
sections starting with 79 hashes ``#``), but you may write the demo in any way

> you like.

Reviewer: Is this page directly related to community submissions? If so, with community submission, is the plan to be less strict with submissions?

E.g., submission can either be:

* A link to a GitHub/bitbucket/gitlab repository (c.f. https://github.com/PatrickHuembeli/vqc_loss_landscapes)

* A link to a rendered jupyter notebook (can be hosted anywhere, e.g., GitHub, colab, nbviewer)

Reviewer: I suppose we need to delineate two types of submissions: ones that go into the basics/research tab, and ones that go into the community tab. The former requires a Python script (as well as instructions on how to build the site locally), the latter is less strict.

Guidelines
^^^^^^^^^^

While you are free to be as creative as you like with your demo, there are a
couple of guidelines to keep in mind.

* Submissions should include your name (and optionally email) at the top under
  the title.

* The title should be clear and concise, and if based on a paper it should be
  similar to the paper that is being implemented.

* All demos should include a summary below the title. The summary should be 1-3
  sentences that makes clear the goal and outcome of the demo, and links to any
  papers/resources used.

* Code should be clearly commented and explained.

* If your content contains random variables/outputs, a fixed seed should be set
  for reproducibility.

* All content should be original or free to reuse subject to license
  compatibility. For example, if you are implementing someone else's research,
  reach out first to recieve permission to reproduce exact figures. Otherwise,
  avoid direct screenshots from papers, and instead refer to figures in the

>   paper within the text.

Reviewer: Nice!

    **title**
    Frugal shot optimization with Rosalin

    **abstract**
    In this tutorial we investigate and implement the Rosalin (Random Operator
    Sampling for Adaptive Learning with Individual Number of shots) from
    Arrasmith et al. [#arrasmith2020]_. In this paper, a strategy is introduced
    for reducing the number of shots required when optimizing variational
    quantum algorithms, by both:

    * Frugally adapting the number of shots used per parameter update, and
    * Performing a weighted sampling of operators from the cost Hamiltonian.

    **relevant links**
    https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_rosalin.html
    https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.06252

Open an issue
-------------

Open a `new issue on the PennyLane QML GitHub repository
<https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/issues/new>`_ and paste the filled in
template from above in the description box. Remove and replace all the text that
was already there.

Write "[DEMO] your-demo-title" (e.g. "[DEMO] Frugal shot optimization with
Rosalin", without the quotes) as the title of the issue, and add the "demos"
label to the issue by clicking on the cogwheel on the right-hand side of the

> **Labels** tag to the right of the text-box and then clicking on "demos".

Reviewer: I think we can set the title as part of the github issue template?

Author: Yep, fixed! :tada:

> Don't forget to push the "Submit new issue" button!

Reviewer: 😆

   :property="og:description": Take a deeper dive into quantum machine learning by exploring cutting-edge algorithms using PennyLane and near-term quantum hardware.
   :property="og:image": https://pennylane.ai/qml/_static/demos_card.png

To submit your own demo you can follow the steps below, beginning with creating
a demo, followed by filling in a demo-submission template and posting it as an

> `issue to the PennyLane QML GitHub repository <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/issues/new?assignees=&labels=demos&template=community-demo.md&title=%5BDEMO%5D>`_

Reviewer: 🖍️ ✒️

Create a demo
-------------
Create a demonstration/tutorial that is using PennyLane and upload it to e.g.
GitHub, Bitbucket or GitLab. Preferably, the demo is simply written as a Jupyter

> notebook or a Python document, but you may write the demo in any way you like.

Reviewer: Can we make it clear as well that entire GitHub repos can count as a submission? I'm thinking in terms of something like https://github.com/PatrickHuembeli/vqc_loss_landscapes. GitHub repos with multiple files are a very common way of providing code for papers in ML!

> Create a demonstration/tutorial that is using PennyLane and upload it to e.g.
> GitHub, Bitbucket or GitLab. Preferably, the demo is simply written as a Jupyter
> notebook a Python document or simply as a repository (e.g. `like this <https://github.com/PatrickHuembeli/vqc_loss_landscapes>`_), but you may
> write the demo in any way you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a demonstration/tutorial using PennyLane and upload it to a source code
hosting service such as GitHub, Bitbucket or GitLab. Good formats for a demonstration include:

* Jupyter notebooks [`example <https://github.com/lanabozanic/quantum_natural_gradient/blob/master/qng_tutorial.ipynb>__`],

* Python scripts with detailed comments and explanations
  [`example <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/qml/blob/master/demonstrations/tutorial_vqe.py>`__],

* Repositories containing a collection of Python scripts, Jupyter notebooks, and
  documentation [`example1 <https://github.com/PatrickHuembeli/vqc_loss_landscapes>`__,
  `example2 <https://github.com/hsim13372/quantum_natural_gradient>`__].
```

Reviewer: Adding examples is a great idea @thisac, I suddenly thought of a few more we could add for each style of demo. It might be good to get permission before going live though.

Author: That's great. Thanks @josh146!

.. raw:: html

    <blockquote class="blockquote border rounded ">
        <p class="mb-0 text-muted text-center">
            You can also sumbit a link to a rendered Jupyter notebook using e.g.
            <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb">Colab</a>,
            <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/">nbviewer</a>,
            <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/">Sagemaker</a>
            or <a href="https://mybinder.org/">Binder</a>.
        </p>

>     </blockquote>

Reviewer 2: To be honest, I thought this formatting was a bug in sphinx. It wasn't so clear why this part of the text is really large...

Author: Oh, maybe it's a bit too much. Do you think it would be better just having it as text and not in a box? @mariaschuld

Reviewer: Yeah, I have to admit I found this stood out weirdly as well. Not so much the style, but the text it emphasizes.

"You can also..." sounds like an addendum rather than a main point, so I found myself asking why this particular paragraph was emphasized!

Author: Right, I'll de-emphasize it then. Not really sure why I boxed it in the first place; it just seemed like a good thing to do at the time. :laughing:

> While you are free to be as creative as you like with your demo, there are a
> couple of guidelines that might be good keep in mind when creating a demo.

Reviewer: (to avoid repetition)
```suggestion
While you are free to be as creative as you like with your demo, there are a
couple of guidelines that might be good keep in mind.
```

Guidelines
^^^^^^^^^^

While you are free to be as creative as you like with your demo, there are a

> couple of guidelines to keep in mind.

Reviewer: It might be good to clarify what these guidelines actually refer to. When I first read this, my reading was that they apply to the info that will be included on the card on the 'Community' page.

If they apply to the demo itself, it's not very clear where they apply if the demo is not in the form of a single Jupyter notebook. E.g., if linking to a GitHub repo of files, do the guidelines apply to the GitHub readme?

> * Submissions should include your name (and optionally email) at the top under

Reviewer: Did this at one point have 'username' as well?

Author: No, it only said name as far as I'm aware. I think this is fine here, or would you prefer writing `name or username` instead?

Reviewer: How it is is fine. I had a vague recollection of @co9olguy changing 'pseudonym' to 'username', but wasn't sure where that was

Author: Yes, that was in the issue template. :smile:

> Specifically when it's a Jupyter notebook or a single Python document. The
> following concerns the content of the demo itself, and is in addition to the
> submission details explained in the next section.

Reviewer: Maybe the following?

```suggestion
The following guidelines refer to the content of the demo itself, or, if submitting
a GitHub repository, the repository documentation/README file.
```

  the title.

* The title should be clear and concise, and if based on a paper it should be
  similar to the paper that is being implemented.

* All demos should include a summary below the title. The summary should be 1-3
  sentences that makes clear the goal and outcome of the demo, and links to any
  papers/resources used.

> * Code should be clearly commented and explained.

Reviewer: Another guideline: it would be good to include the dependency versions require to run the demo successfully. E.g., it should say `pennylane==0.10.0` etc. This way, if the demo is broken on later versions, it's still easy to install an environment where everything works.

Reviewer: And it will help us if users file bug reports!

Reviewer: Perhaps, at minimum, the PL and plugin versions should be provided. Even better, a `requirements.txt` file with the output of `pip freeze` would be 👨‍🍳

Author: Added a bit mentioning that dependencies could be added to the tutorial. Not sure if this would actually fit better in the issue rather than in the demo itself, although it's at least mentioned in the guidelines now.

* If your content contains random variables/outputs, a fixed seed should be set
  for reproducibility.

* All content should be original or free to reuse subject to license
  compatibility. For example, if you are implementing someone else's research,
  reach out first to receive permission to reproduce exact figures. Otherwise,
  avoid direct screenshots from papers, and instead refer to figures in the
  paper within the text.

Open an issue

> -------------

Reviewer: I wonder if this section is still necessary now that we have the github template? 🍕 4️⃣ 💭

Author: I don't mind this being here as well, as an example, although I agree that it might not be necessary. What do you think, should I just remove it or keep it as it is? :thinking: 

:pizza: :four: :thought_balloon: (that's a nice little rebus, by the way; didn't notice it at first)

Reviewer: >I agree that it might not be necessary

I don't really mind either way, my only thought was that it might be harder to maintain two separate copies in two separate files.

> 🍕 4️⃣ 💭

It did make me laugh when I included it lol. I might start using this instead of 'nitpick' to label suggested changes that aren't necessary
